# Internationalization (i18n)

WISdoM uses the package [`@ngx-translate/core`](http://www.ngx-translate.com/) 
for 
[internationalization (i18n) and localization (l10n)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internationalization_and_localization) 
of its user interface. 
The page is currently translated into German and English.

## Loading Translations

Translations are loaded by importing the `TranslateModule`, as shown in the 
[Creating Your Own Module](../build-and-customize/creating-your-own-module.md) 
document. 
All translations are currently statically defined and collected by the 
`ModuleProvider`.

To make translations available for the provider, they need to be in the 
`wisdomInterface` of a module. 
All translations follow the route convention 
`[module-namespace].[component-namespace].[element]`, for example 
`core.frame.account`.

## Displaying Translations

Technically, all translations are statically loaded and only available after 
`afterViewInit`. 
It is best to use either the `translate` pipe function in a template or to 
subscribe to the `TranslateService`.

The translator accepts strings to translate them. 
For example, the string `core.frame.account` will be translated to `Konto` in 
German.

If the translator does not know the string to be translated, the raw input will 
be displayed. 
This is useful if translations will be embedded later.

## Changing Languages

Languages can be changed on the fly in the header bar, and the components should 
act the same. 
It is not recommended to fetch the translation and then display it with fetched 
data. 
Instead, it is better to fetch data and then dynamically show the translated 
labels.
